# Summary of activity - Oct 17, 2019

## Project repo activity

### Terminology

[Spec terminology](https://github.com/nikomatsakis/project-ffi-unwind/blob/master/spec-terminology.md)

* UB - existing definition in Unsafe Code Guidelines glossary
* Unspecified behavior - similar to C++ usage: behavior varies, but "not
  completely undefined" - intent is "non-adversarial" compilation
* TBD - WG-specific; behavior that the WG plans to specify
  * When TBD behavior hits Stable, it is considered Unspecified.

### Roadmaps

[Technical details of what we want to
specify](https://github.com/nikomatsakis/project-ffi-unwind/tree/master/roadmap)

### Project-planning

[Non-technical "meta"
planning](https://github.com/nikomatsakis/project-ffi-unwind/blob/master/project-planning.md)

### "0th RFC"

- [gnzlbg](https://github.com/nikomatsakis/project-ffi-unwind/pull/9)
- [niko](https://github.com/nikomatsakis/project-ffi-unwind/pull/11)

Intent:
- technical: just the new ABI string, with "unspecified" (TBD) behavior
- meta: announce group, share links to Zulip & repo

### "resolved concerns"

[README](https://github.com/nikomatsakis/project-ffi-unwind/blob/master/resolved-concerns/README.md)

First instance: summarized a Zulip conversation w/ gnzlbg

## Misc

### Adopting "unspecified behavior" definition in Rust project

Already have UB, and "TBD" does not apply outside of WGs (though other WGs may find it useful)

Will submit separate RFC for this

### Adam's status

- low availability for next ~month
- trying to keep as up-to-date as possible with filling in details about Lucet use cases on Zulip
- read about half of the PRs, very few of the PR comments
- Lucet: on nightly, using `unwind(allowed)`, so no urgent need for new lang feature

### General plan: proceed as ["series of RFCs"][series-RFCS]

Each RFC has had "quite some vetting"; to participate in early
discussion/design, participate in project WG

[series-RFCS]: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/210922-wg-ffi-unwind/topic/meeting.20time/near/178405449

### Back-and-forth from convos to GitHub PRs/issues

Seems fairly productive, but a bit confusing -- no formal mechanism other than
manual permalinks

Several comments of "not sure what this is responding to"

AFAIK (Kyle here) we agree that important points are captured in GitHub, either
via PR discussions or actual repo content. This, together with keeping the PR
discussions more minimal, should let interested parties track progress without
requiring deep-dives on Zulip conversations or long GitHub threads. We haven't
tested this, per se, but Adam has been very busy this week and hasn't been able
to catch up on all the Zulip conversations, so a good first test will be
whether he feels "caught up" after reading the actual repo content.

### "feeling lost"

Niko: "I'd mostly like to have a set of steps we are following" -
[Zulip](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/210922-wg-ffi-unwind/topic/meeting.20time/near/177807832)

Not sure if this is resolved by the "project-planning" document or not
